hi I'm Julie Morris and I'm here today
with navitas naturals join us as we take
a look at palm sugar the delicious
sweetener that's good for you and good
for the planet palm sugar gained its
popularity truths use in healthy East
Asian cuisine it comes from the coconut
palm tree which is an excitingly
eco-friendly crop to grow traditional
communities can grow fifty to seventy
percent more sugar using coconut palms
instead of sugar cane while using just a
fifth of the resources Plus farmers can
produce over a hundred other products
from the same tree there's very little
waste even the food and agricultural
organization have named sweeteners made
from palm and most sustainable
sweeteners in the world palm sugar
easily makes the healthy sweetener
shortlist it has a naturally low
glycemic index of 35 making it a good
choice for diabetics it also contains
many minerals like potassium magnesium
zinc and iron as well as some vitamins
like vitamin C and several of the beans
navitas naturals palm sugar is harvested
in a traditional manner sugar farmers
will climb the tall palm trees and
collect the prize nectar of the coconut
blossoms to then take the nectar and
boil it into a rich caramel and finally
they dry out the sugar and grind it into
crystals navitas naturals palm sugar is
certified organic vegan gluten-free and
kosher
navitas naturals palm sugar is
exceptionally versatile because you can
use it anywhere cane sugar or other
sweeteners would go it's just below one
to one conversion ratio to white sugar
plus it lends a light caramel undertone
to recipes it has this way of enhancing
anything you put it in I love baking
with palm sugar a freshly baked pie made
the palm sugar is taken to a whole new
level with its magic I'm palm sugar
brownies that caramel sweetness melts
right inside your mouth homemade jams
are also taken to the next level because
of palm sugars affinity for fruit and
even putting just a touch of palm sugar
in your next smoothie has a way of bring
all those great natural flavors to life
personally I like to make my special
fresh-squeezed lime made with palm sugar
I'll share with you the special recipe
you'll love it so to start out I'm just
going to put in a couple of cubes of ice
and add to that two tablespoons of fresh
squeezed lime juice to that I will put
in one heaping tablespoon of palm sugar
look at that golden color and a cup of
water this of course makes a single
serving just add in a little pinch of
lime zest to bring out that great flavor
if this a quick little stir
and top with a lime wedge so it's easy
to see why palm sugars earned a
reputation for being a healthy sugar
alternative it's pure sustainable
versatile and absolutely delicious
thanks for watching